Let's see the AWS CLI in action.
I'm on a Mac, so I've navigated to a terminal window.
Now, I'm going to demonstrate using the CLI to access and
manage AWS services running in my account from the command line.
I've already downloaded, installed,
and configured the CLI.
I'm going to show you the version that I'm running.
So the command is AWS minus-minus version.
So this is just a quick look showing the version.
Next, let's look at the EC2 instances running in my account.
So this is the command.
First, you use AWS,
then you use the service.
In this case, EC2,
and then the command.
In this case, describe instances.
So this is going to list all of the instances running in my account.
So let me scroll back up.
I have three instances currently running.
So it shows the instance state for monitoring,
it shows the public DNS name,
lunchtime, IP address, it shows a lot of information related to your EC2 instances.
So let me scroll back down.
Next, let's look at starting an EC2 instance.
So from the command line,
if you have the instance ID,
you can actually start or stop an instance.
So this would be the command.
You would use AWS,
the service name, the command, in this case,
start instances, and then the parameter for instance IDs, and the value.
So let's click return.
Notice in this case,
the instances already running.
If it weren't, it would start up.
You can also stop the instance from the command line.
Next, let's look at publishing a message to an SNS topic from the command line.
So this is the command, AWS,
the name of the service,
SNS, the action publish.
Then here for the topic ARM parameter,
I'm passing in the ARM for the topic,
and then for the message parameter,
I'm passing in the message that I want to send.
In this case, publish via command line.
So let's click "Enter".
Because this returns the message ID,
I can assume that my request was successful.
So let me go to my email client to see if an email came through.
Yes, I see it. I will drag it over here and show it to you.
So this is the message published via command line as expected.
Now, let's look at sending a message to the sqsq that's in my account.
So let's look at this command.
It's AWS, the service name,
the action, which is send message.
Here, we need the queue URL.
So this is the URL for the queue.
The message body.
Here, on the queue,
I'm just putting a string message from CLI.
You also need to pass in a group ID,
and that's what I'm doing here and a message deduplication ID.
That's what I'm passing in here.
So let's click return.
Because I get this message back showing
the body and the sequence number and the message ID,
I can assume that this request was successful.
One easy way to do that,
is to list the messages in a queue,
and this is the command that you would use to do that,
AWS, the service, sqs, the action,
receive message, and then for the queue URL parameter,
you would pass in the URL to the queue.
So let's click "Return".
Notice here, it shows one of the messages in the queue.
Lastly, let's look at listing
the contents of an S3 bucket via the command line interface.
So this is the command that you would use,
AWS, the name of the service,
S3, the action in this case, LS,
which stands for list,
and then the bucket name.
So let's click "Return", and notice here,
it lists out all of the objects in the S3 bucket.
So this was a quick look at using the CLI to
access and manage AWS services from the command line.